"Ich bin soldat" is a german song, written in the middle of the French-Prussian War by Max Kegel
this song is inspired by the popular French song "Te souviens-tu?"; this song talks about the
nonsense of every war. The song starts saying that the singer is a soldier but he doesn't like
being one, that nobody asked him if he ever wanted to be a warrior, he was dragged away from his
home into the barrack and if he tried to flee, he was going to be haunted like an animal, he was
forced to leave all the loved ones and this feelings is hurting more than a bullet in the chest.
The second verse starts again with the interjection "i am a soldier, but only against his will"
and continues saying that he doesn't like the blue uniform of Prussia and early German Empire, he
doesn't like the bloody life of a soldier in a war period, where he has to defend himself from other
human beings, in his opinion soldiers are useless because everyone loves peace
and all the places that are destroyed in every battle like the golden fields or the beatiful countryside.
The third verse of the song says that he has to march every day, and every night; he has to deal
with the arrogance of the officers and when his nation is at war, he must kill his "brothers"
who never harmed him in any way. The verse continues saying that the retirement for veterans
were very poor in that period even if they fought for their fatherland. The last verse says
that he wants to meet all his brothers: German, Italian, French, for him it doesn't matter he wants to shake hands
and not exchange rifle shots. The last part of the verse is a call for all the population of every
country to rebel against the tyrants and not to be a soldier for the tyrants but to be a soldier of freedom.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZWClFjsaseE

contesto storico:
The Franco-Prussian war was a conflict between the Second French Empire and the North German Confederation (Kingdom of Prussia, Kingdom of Saxony, Kingdom of Bavaria, Kingdom of Württemberg, Grand Duchy of Baden, Grand Duchy of Hesse and by Rhine). Lasting from 19 July 1870 to 28 January 1871, the conflict was caused primarly by France to reassert its dominant position in continental Europe, which appeared in question following the decisive Prussian victory over Austria in 1866. According to some historians, Prussian chancellor Otto von Bismarck deliberately provoked the French into declaring war on Prussia in order to induce four independent Southern German states to join the alliance, which will lead to the formation of the German Empire at the end of the war. Some days before the end of the war, all the kings of the German states will gather at Versailles Palace to form the German Empire under the lead of Wilhelm I from Prussia. The war ends with the decisive victory of Germany with the capitulation of France and annexation of Alsace-Lorreine to German Empire.

TESTO:
Ich bin Soldat, doch bin ich es nicht gerne,
als ich es ward, hat man mich nicht gefragt.
Man riß mich fort, hinein in die Kaserne,
gefangen ward ich, wie ein Wild gejagt.
Ja, von der Heimat, von des Liebchens Herzen
mußt' ich hinweg, und von der Freunde Kreis;
denk ich daran, fühl ich der Wehmut Schmerzen,
fühl in der Brust des Zornes Glut so heiß.

Ich bin Soldat, doch nur mit Widerstreben,
ich lieb ihn nicht, den blauen Königsrock.
Ich lieb es nicht, das blut'ge Waffenleben,
mich zu verteid'gen wär genug ein Stock.
O sagt mir an, wozu braucht ihr Soldaten?
Ein jedes Volk liebt Ruh' und Frieden nur;
allein aus Herrschsucht und dem Volk zum Schaden
laßt ihr zertreten, ach, die gold'ne Flur!

Ich bin Soldat, muß Tag und Nacht marschieren,
statt an der Arbeit, muß ich Posten stehn.
Statt in der Freiheit, muß ich salutieren
und muß den Hochmut frecher Burschen sehn.
Und geht's ins Feld, so muß ich Brüder morden,
von denen keiner mir zuleid was tat;
dafür als Krüppel trag ich Band und Orden,
und hungernd ruf ich dann: "Ich war Soldat!"

Ihr Brüder all', ob Deutsche, ob Franzosen,
ob Ungarn, Dänen, ob vom Niederland,
ob grün, ob rot, ob blau, ob weiß die Hosen,
gebt euch statt Blei zum Gruß die Bruderhand!
Auf, laßt zur Heimat uns zurückmarschieren,
von den Tyrannen unser Volk befrei'n;
denn nur Tyrannen müssen Kriege führen,
Soldat der Freiheit will ich gerne sein!
